HERITAGE COMMONS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION
Architectural Application Form

1.  GENERAL INFORMATION 

    Date:
    Property Address:

    Owners Name:
    Owners Email:
    Owners Home Phone:
    Owners Cell Phone:
    Owners Address:

    General Description of Proposed Work:


    Contractors Name:
    Contractors Email:
    Contractors Phone:
    Contractors Cell Phone:
    Contractors Address:
    Contractors License No.:

    Projected Start Date:
    Projected Completion Date:
    (Work hours are 8:00 am – 5:00 pm, Monday through Friday)

2.  APPLICANT GUIDELINES

    Applicant agrees and understands the following guidelines:

    2.1 This application is not complete unless accompanied by the supporting documents listed on the reverse of this form.

    2.2 The Committee/Board may impose "Special Conditions" of approval. Failure to conform to any such conditions within 30 days of notification by the Association will be automatic authorization by the applicant to have the necessary work contracted out by the Association to bring the project into conformance with the approval. All costs incurred by the Association shall be a charge against the owner's lot. Such costs shall include costs of construction, reconstruction, administration, fees, attorney fees and reasonable court costs.

    2.3 Applicant will indemnify the Association against any and all acts or Claims arising in connection with the Improvement, including but not limited to, any and all acts, omissions, or Claims arising in connection with the approval, construction, operation, maintenance, repair, use or removal of the Improvement, including attorney fees and costs of litigation in connection therewith.

    2.4 All maintenance, repair or replacement of the improvements will be the sole responsibility of the lot owner.

    2.5 Any expense incurred by the Association that is the direct or indirect result of the proposed improvements shall be the sole responsibility of the lot owner.

    2.6 All necessary permits and approvals from municipalities or other jurisdictions are the sole responsibility of the applicant. A copy of any required permit(s) must be submitted with application.
             
    2.7 All work must be initiated with consideration for other lot owners, the aesthetics of the community, noise generation and time of day.

    2.8 All work must be completed within a reasonable amount of time and must not be a safety hazard to surrounding units and/or the common area (i.e., location of supplies or tools used for the work).

3.  ARCHITECTURAL GUIDELINES AND APPLICATION INSTRUCTIONS

    3.1 Complete all information on the Architectural Application form.
    
    3.2 Briefly describe the architectural modifications for which you are applying.
    
    3.3 Submit drawings of architectural plans. Drawings should include:

        a. Applicant's name and signature.
        
        b. Address of property and address of owner if different.
        
        c. Architect/Engineer's name and registration number, if any.
        
        d. Scale and legend.
        
        e. Use standard size paper.
        
        f. Provide a plan view, if applicable.
        
        g. Provide an elevation view, if applicable.
        
        h. Attach materials specifications, including size, color and texture.
        
        i. Start-up and completion date.
       
        j. Attach any addition documents as specified in Solar Panel Installation Policy and or Satellite Dish and Antenna Installation and Maintenance Policy.
       
4.  CONTRACTOR

    If hiring a contractor The following is a checklist of required documentation that will be needed in order to process your architectural request.

    1.0 [ ] A valid California Contractor’s license:
        Hiring a licensed Contractor is essential to most remodel projects, while the license is just one piece of the information needed, an active license means the Contractor has met the California requirements to perform general contracting/construction. For more information about the types of licenses businesses need to carry, or to check on a Contractor’s history such as complaints or suspensions please visit http://www.cslb.ca.gov/.

    2.0 [ ] A copy of the Contractors liability insurance:
        This information is needed in case the Contractor damages the unit where work is being performed, or the common area. If the Contractor you hired does not carry this insurance and they damage the common area the Association may hold you responsible for said damages.

    3.0 [ ] A copy of the Contractors Workman’s Comp insurance:
        This information is to make sure the contractors employees are covered in the event of an accident. If the Contractor has employees and does not carry this coverage it creates a lot of liability for you the homeowner and the Association.


5.  SUBMISSION

    5.1 Send all information and applications by certified mail to:
        Heritage Commons Homeowners Association 
        c/o Bay Area Property Services
        1661 Tice Valley Blvd., Suite 200
        Walnut Creek, CA 94595
 
    5.2 Receipt of all applications will be noticed in writing. The applicant must give the Association ample time to approve or deny the application.

If you have any questions about the documentation requested please contact management

6. SIGNATURES AND AGREEMENT

I have read the above guidelines and agree to follow all rules and procedures, including any special conditions which may be imposed by the Board of Directors.  I understand that I am responsible for all costs, and legal fees incured by the HOA in enforcing the final approved Architectual Application.



------------------------------------------------
Unit Owners Name (Printed):



------------------------------------------------
Unit Owners Signature:



------------------------------------------------
Date: