HERITAGE COMMONS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION
Violation and Fining Policy
Schedule of Fines

This document sets forth Heritage Commons Homemowners Association’s policy for imposing
sanctions and/or ﬁnes for violations of the Association ’3 Governing Documents pursuant to
California Civil Code section 1363 (as of January 1, 2014, Civil Code section 5120) and the
Association's By-Laws and Declaration of Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions {"CC&Rs."’
recorded on September 19, 2002). Capitalized terms in this Schedule of Fines and Policy shall
have the same meaning as set forth in the CC&Rs.

1.     Member Responsibility. Under the Association’s Governing Documents and California law,
each Owner is a Member of the Association and is responsible for complying with the Governing
Documents, which include the Bylaws, CC&Rs and the Association’s Rules and policies. Owners
are required to give their tenants, if any, copies of the Governing Documents, including any
amendments and all Rules and policies as they are adopted or revised. Owners are also responsible for their tenants' compliance with the Governing Documents. In the case of violations by tenants, the Association will notify the Unit Owner of the violation. Any fines or assessments for tenant non-compliance will be imposed against the Unit Owner.

2.     Notice and Hearing. The Board of Directors will provide the Member with written notice
and an opportunity to be heard at a meeting of the Board before imposing a ﬁne or other sanction, in accordance with the Association’s Governing Documents, Civil Code section 1363 (as of January l, 2014, Civil Code section 5120) and Corporations Code section 7341. The Board may impose one or more sanctions if it determines at the meeting that a member or his or her tenant or guest has violated the Governing Documents. Sanctions may be imposed even if the member does not appear at the meeting.

3.      Sanctions. Sanctions imposed by the Board may include, but are not limited to, a monetary penalty in accordance with this Schedule of Fines adopted by the Board, suspension ofa Member’s rights, including the right to vote and/or suspension of a Member’s right to use
recreational/community facilities. If the Association is required to spend monies, including
attorneys’ fees, to bring the Owner’s Unit, or the Owner’s tenants, guests or invitees into
compliance, the Board may levy a Reimbursement Assessment and/or Enforcement Assessment
against the Owner and his or her Unit following a noticed hearing before the Board, pursuant to Sections 6.6 and 6.7 ofthe CC&Rs.

4.     Payment of Fines, Reimbursement Assessments and Costs.  Fines, Reimbursement Assessments and Enforcement Assessments are due and payable when levied and are delinquent if
not paid within 15 days after they are due. If a ﬁne, Reimbursement Assessment and/or
Enforcement Assessment is delinquent, a late charge of ten percent (10%) of the fine and/or
Assessment will be added. Interest at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per year will be imposed on the entire amount owing; beginning 30 days after the ﬁne or Assessment is due.

5.     Schedule of Fines. The Board of Directors has adopted the following Schedule of Fines,
which will be in effect until changed by the Board:

   -   Violations of the Governing Documents — up to $100.00 per violation
       Multiple violations of the same nature or provision will be subject to multiple lines, per Section 8.1(0) of the CC&Rs.

6.      Penalties in Addition to Corrective Measures. The imposition of ﬁnes, Reimbursement
Assessments and/or Enforcement Assessments and the suspension of Member rights are not
alternatives to compliance with the Governing Documents. Compliance may include but is not
limited to correcting, repairing or replacing non-complying conditions, all at the Unit Owner’s
expense.

7‘.    Violation of Law. The Association may treat any violation of state, municipal or local law by an Owner or his or her tenant in the same manner as a violation of the Governing Documents if the Owner's violation creates a nuisance to other Owners, Residents andlor the Association.

8.      Other Remedies. The Association reserves the right to avail itself of any other remedy
permitted by law and the Governing Documents and to enforce the provisions of the Governing
Documents, Rules, regulations and policies ofthe Association. These remedies include, but are not limited to, bringing an action in Small Claims or Superior Court or requesting that the matter be submitted to a form of dispute resolution. Such remedies may be taken in addition to or in lieu of any action already taken, and commencement of one remedy shall not prevent the Association from electing at a later date to pursue another remedy.


Adopted by resolution of the Board of Directors
Heritage Common Homeowriers Association
September 26, 2013
By: S Weir