HERITAGE COMMONS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION
Swimming Pool Policy

1.  POLICIES POSTED ON SIGNS IN POOL AREA 

    1.1 Pool Hours 
        Daily During
        Pool Season
        9:00 AM to 10:00 PM

    1.2 Heritage Commons Pool Rules 

        1.  A parent of and adult (18 years or older) designated by the parent must be present when his or her child (13 years or younger) or any child who is his or her guest in the pool area.

        2.  Ther is a limit of two (2) guests under the age of 14 years per unit per day on weekends and holidays.  Four (4) guests under the age of 14 years per unit per day are allowed on weekdays.

        3.  Guests are allowed to use the pool only when accompanied by the condominium resident they are visiting.  The homeowner is responsible for the actions of their guests.

        4.  Residents hold priority over guests in use of the pool and other common areas.

        5.  Proper swimmin gattire is required.  No children in diapers allowed in the pool at any time.

        6.  Swimmers have priority in the pool.  All rafts must be removed at the request of those whishing to swim.

        7.  NO GLASS containers of any kind are allowed inthe pool area.  No alcoholic beverages are allowed in the pool area.

        8.  Each pool user is responsible for keeping the area clean.  Please remove your trash and personal belongings upon leaving the pool area.
        
        9.  No diving, running, pushing or "horseplay" of any kind is permitted in the pool area.  Lifeswaving equipment is for emergency use only.

        10. No soaps or chemicals, etc. are to be used in the pool.

        11. No animals are allowed in the pool area.

        12. Pool hours are Monday through Sunday until 10:00 PM.
        
        13. The pool gate must be kept CLOSED and LOCKED at all times.  Duplication of the pool key is prohibited.

        14. NO LOUD MUSIC.  Loud music tavels to units located across from the pool.

        15. Non-compliance of the pool rules may result in forfeiture of your pool key and pool privileges.
    

    1.3 Diarrhea
        Do not use the pool if you are currently having active diarrhea, or if you have had active diarrhea within the previouse 14 days


2.  ADDITIONAL POLICIES NOT POSTED ON SIGNS IN POOL AREA 
    
    2.1 Members and guests use the swimming pool at their own risk.
    
    2.2 Owner is responsible for all costs, and legal fees incured by the HOA in enforcing this policy.

Adopted by the BOD:  August 20, 2009