HERITAGE COMMONS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION
Pet Policy 

1.  UNIVERSAL PET POLICIES

    1.1  No animals of any kind may be raised, bred, or kept in any condominium for commercial purposes.

    1.2  All animals residing within a unit for longer than 6 days are considered pets and are subject to this policy.

    1.3  Owners may not keep any pet that requires special exotic license from the state

    1.4  Only two (2) domestic pets, including reptiles shall be permitted per unit.

    1.5 No pet shall be kept within the development that causes a nuisance. Owners shall be required to remove any pet from the development that has been determined to cause a nuisance.

    1.6 Pet owners are responsible for cleaning up after their pets and properly disposing of pet waste.

2.  AQUARIUM SPECIFIC PET POLICIES

    2.1  To protect unit structure the total number of gallons of all water filled aquariums combined may not exceed 50 gallons.  There is no limit to number of aquatic animals that may be kept in aquariums.

    2.2 Unfilled aquarium are not subject to the combined 50 gallon limit.

3.  DOG SPECIFIC POLICIES

    3.1 Dogs shall be kept on a leash at all times when in the common area and under the strict control of a responsible party. Unleashed dogs shall be removed from the property to an animal control shelter under the jurisdiction of either the City or the County, subject to the guidelines in the restrictions.

    3.2 Dogs must be listed with accurate breed information on Home Owners Insurance and renters insurance policy.  Copy of insurance policy listing pet must be filed with Heritage Commons each year for first 3 years of pets residence in unit within 15 days of acquiring pet or moving in.

    3.3 The following dog breeds including mixes are banned from residing within units and all common areas.

        -   Doberman Pinscher
        -   Pit Bull including Bull Terriers, Staffordshire Bull Terriers, Amercian Bull Terriers and American Staffordshire Terrier, Staffordshire Terrier, or any combination of these breeds,
        -   Rottweiler
        -   Chow Chow
        -   Wolf dogs and wolf hybrids
        -   Presa Canario
        -   Akita
        -   Husky
        -   Siberian Husky
        -   Mastiff
        -   Alaskan Malamute
        -   Bullmastiff
        -   Cane Corso
        -   Any dog trained as a security, protection, or bite dog

    3.4 Dogs that fall within the banned breed list residing within a unit prior to the adoption of these rules shall be allowed to continue residing untill owner moves out.

    3.5 Per AB 468 Emotional Support Animals that fall within the banned breed list must file a valid California State ESA letter with the HOA prior to moving into the residence.

4.  CAT SPECIFIC POLICIES

    4.1 Cats shall be kept on a leash at all times when in the common area and under the strict control of a responsible party. Unleashed cats shall be removed from the property to an animal control shelter under the jurisdiction of either the City or the County, subject to the guidelines in the restrictions.

    4.2 Cats may not be free to wander beyond exclusive use areas.

    4.3 Owners may setup cat enclose systems (Cattery) to restrain cats to the exclusive use areas.

        4.3.1   Owner must fill out an Archiitectural Application prior to setting up a cat encluse.

5.  OWNER RESPONSIBILITIES AND ENFORCEMENT

    5.1 Unit Owner is responsible for all costs, and legal fees incured by the HOA in enforcing this policy.