HERITAGE COMMONS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION
Parking Policy

1.  VEHICLE RESTRICTIONS

    1.1 No trailer, camper, mobile home, commercial vehicle, truck (other than standard size pick-up), inoperable vehicle, boat or similar equipment shall be permitted to remain upon any portion of the development. No unregistered vehicles permitted in the Common Area.

    1.2 Off-road, and/or unlicensed/unregistered vehicles shall not be operated on the property and/or stored in the common area.

2.  PARKING SPACE USAGE AND REQUIREMENTS

    2.1 All unmarked parking spaces are for the use of residents and their guests. 

    2.2 Vehicles parked in unmarked parking spaceing must display Heritage Commons Parking Tag from the vehicle rear view mirror. 
    
    2.2 Any vehicle parked in the same parking space for more than 24 hours (with or without a permit) is considered in violation and is subject to immediate tow, without notice, and at the vehicle owner's expense.  (At the Board's and Parking Committee's discretion, vehicle owners will be notified, when possible, and towed after 72 hours)

3.  PARKING RESTRICTIONS

    3.1 Any vehicle parked in the Fire Lane is subject to immediate tow, without notice, and at the vehicle owner's expense.

    3.2 Vehicles not displaying authorized parking permits are subject to immediate tow at the vehicle owner's expense, (At the Board's and Parking Committee's discretion, vehicle owners will be notified, when possible, and towed after 72 hours. Vehicles known to be trespassing will be towed with no attempt at notice).

    3.3 No parking on or blocking of sidewalks by vehicles.

    3.4 Maintenance of vehicles in driveways and/or any portion of the common area, except for emergency repair, is strictly prohibited.

4.  TOWING

    4.1 Any vihicle not parked in a manor consistant with this policy are subject to imediate tow at vehicle owners expense.

5.  ENFORCEMENT OF POLICY

    5.1 Unit Owner is responsible for all costs, and legal fees incured by the HOA in enforcing this policy.    