HERITAGE COMMONS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION
Solar Panel Installation Policy

This document sets forth the policies of the Heritage Commons Homeowners Association for the installation and maintenance of Solar Panels within the Heritage Commons condominium project, pursuant to the Declaration of Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions for Heritage Commons Homeowners Association, as amended from time to time (collectively, the “Declaration").

1.  DEFINITIONS

    All capitalized terms that are not otherwise defined in these Guidelines shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Declaration.

2.  NOTIFICATION AND APPROVAL

    Before installing a Solar Panels and related equipment, Owners must submit an architectual application notifying Association of their intent. Owners must include a detailed drawings including location of the panels and all wire runs and pennetrations.  Owners are encouraged to work with the Association and its Board to determine a suitable location for the panels and wire penetrations.  Once approved owner and owners contractors must follow the board approved application plans.  Any deviation from the plans must be re-installed to match the approved plans at the owners expense.

3.  INSTALLATION

    3.1 Panels must be located only on roofs directly over ocupied unit.
    
    3.2 Wires must penetrate roof at the level the panels are installed and foolow a path within the building

    3.3 Boxes, Cutoff switches and breakers must be located within the unit, wires must be run within the walls and not in conduit on the exterior of the buildings.

    3.4 Batteries may be located within the garage, utility closets or in the exclusive use area that houses the air conditioning condensor.  Batteries may not be located in common areas, or wihin the T fence leading to the front door.  

    3.5 Installation must be in accordance with all applicable building, fire, electrical and related codes. If installed outdoors, installation shall be by a licensed and insured installer knowledgeable about the proper installation of solar. All installations shall be in accordance with the manufacturer's installation specifications.

    3.6 To the maximum extent possible, wiring or cabling should be installed so as to be minimally visible and shoutd blend into the material to which it is mounted or placed. Where not unreasonable to do so, conduit must be painted to blend into the background to which it is mounted or placed.

    3.7 The Board may require the Owner to install screens or landscaping, at the Owner's expense.

4.  MAINTENANCE, REPAIR AND REMOVAL

    The Owner shail be responsible, at the Owner's sole expense, for the maintenance of any Solar Systems. In the event the Owner removes the Solar System, the Owner shall, at his (or her) sole expense, promptly restore the surrounding area to its original condition.

5.  ROOF REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE

    5.1 Owner is responsible for uninstalling and reinstalling solar panels when required by the Heritage Commons Home Owners Association for roof repair and or replacement.

    5.2 Owner must reimburse HOA all costs associated with tesing and repair of any leak caused by Solar Panel installation and penetrations and any water damage caused by said leak.
    
6.  ENFORCEMENT OF POLICY

    6.1 Owner is responsible for all costs, and legal fees incured by the HOA in enforcing this policy.